1001 The Mona Lisa is a half-length portrait painting by the italian artist Leonardo da Vinci. It is considered an archrtypal masterpiece of the italian Renaissance and has been described as "the best known, the most visited, the most written about, the most sung about, the most parodied work of art in world. The painting novel qualities include the subjects expression, which is frequenly decribed as enigmatic, the monumentality of the composition, the subtle modeling of forms, and the atmospheric illusionism.|
1002 The Cullinan Diamond was the largest gem-quality rough diamond ever found, weighing 621.35g, discovered at the Premier No.2 mine in Cullinan, Cullianan, South Africa,on 26 January 1905. It was named after Thomas Cullinan, the mine's chairman. In April 1905, it was put on sale in London, but despite considerable interest, it was still unsold after two years. In 1907, the Transvaal Colony government bought the Cullinan and then presented it to Edward VII, the king of the United Kingdom, who had it cut by Asscher Brothers in Amsterdam.|
1003 The first reference to this pearl can be found in 'Commentarios Reales de Los Incas by historian Garcilaso dela Vega(1539-1616). He tells of an exception pear-shaped pearl,which was brought back to Spain from Venezuela(other sources of the time mention Panama) in 1579 where is was sold to King Philip II of Spain(1527-1598). It was meant as a gift for his daughter on the occasion of he marriage, but the King found it so beautiful that he kept it for himself. Later, in his stament, he elevated to the rank of a Spanish Crown Jewel and from then on the pearl is recorded in every royal inventory more than 200 years.|
1004 The Patek Phiippe Henry Graves Supercomplication is one of the most complicated mechanical pocket watch ever created. The 18-karat gold watch has 24 complications and was assembled by Patek Philippe. It was named after banker Henry Graves Jr who commissioned it out of his desire to outdo the Grande Complication pocketwotch of American automaker James Ward Packard. The who were both at the top of the watch collecting world, regulary commissioning innovative new timepieces.|
1005 sample
